  ---
  layout: post
  author: Riesenradler
  title: "Design of my ideal appartment"
  thumbnail:
  categories: [project, video games, studio, design, interior design]
  tags: [project, video games, studio, design, interior design]
  date: '2020-04-01'
  permalink: /:title/

  ---


 CONTENT

## Motivation

One of the projects I wanted to get going this year, is the design of my ideal appartment.

<!--more-->
<!-- put this at the end of what we wish to have as an excerpt -->

In order to do that, I have to learn more about technologies, that I have been wanting to get into for a long time,
like 3D modelling, real time graphics, shader programming and also the process of creating an interesting shape around
a well defined utility of a real world object.
The tech stack I chose mostly consists of software which is either open source or for all practical purposes free to use.
For the modelling part I want to use blender, because I have some prior experience with it and it allows the automation of processes
with python, my favorite programming language. The real time part will be supplied by Unreal Engine, because I find prototyping of really
good looking graphics to be faster than any other tech stack I have ever tried (including things like Processing, or writing a graphics application
from scratch). Recently, the amount of cheap or free, cutting edge content for the engine has gone through the roof and even if I were to try to
monetize the project, which I don't, the 5% fee is well worth the abstraction of most tedious technical problems one tends to run into in this
space. Lastly I have a hunch that a good looking virtual project is actually a very suitable way to communicate one's ideas with manufacturing
professionals, should I get so far as to try to produce some of my designs outside of the computer.

More than anything though, this is an exercise in self motivation. That means I will start extremely humbly, with a blank unreal project,
and build it up to something visually stunning over time. I plan to release short video descriptions of each significant step forward
[here](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCkyf5Jj3E-74nGi9W7a3xmQ). When I encounter a particularly challenging problem or go through
and interesting creative thought process, I want to talk about that there, too.

But why do something like this in the first place? In recent years I have felt, that video games provide some of the most up to date, relevant
aesthetics for public places and sometimes also private ones I know of, vastly more relevant than the bulk of traditonal design work. Yet,
design in video games, just as well as art in video games, plays this role of a very short lived consumable that is hardly noticed while people
are actually playing through the game, and then very quickly forgotten. It's like working in a splendid historical building or a city with an interesting
history: when prompted, you might not even be able to talk about the most prominent elements of architectural or urbanistic elements, even though you
have been commuting through them daily.
Computers being the backbone of modern society and video games being the most natural artform on this medium, I think that they have front row seats
to observe the most important developments of contemporary life, and their commentary is knowledgeable and important. It is time to talk about some
purely virtual work, as we talk about traditional painters, architects or designers.

Specifically, I have been impressed by the aesthetic of Deus Ex: Human Revolution, because it was able to blend a contemporary digital aesthetic
into a very old and traditional setting, the city of Prague. A world like that, even though in turmoil in the game's world, is one that has
internalized recent technological developments. Humans have, or are really in the process of, appropriating technology as their new, natural way
of life. This has a profoundly positive meaning, namely that technology has become normal, understood, useable by a majority. People decorate their
surroundings with references to concepts they really care about and once they become references to digital tools, methods and thought processes,
that allow anybody to widen their potential impact on the world, that's a good thing. I want to see that. As it stands, in all the real places
I know of, this hasn't happened. There are referenes to war, old religious themes, outdated political ideas, kind of arbitrarily skewed portrayals
of the history of art and science, mostly nationalist mythology and ideas about what public space should be, which have been developed 150, 200 years
ago. For me, this project is meant to be a place, where I can experiment with these kinds of thoughts.
